hello everyone its Elena and I'm back
with another video and today I'm going
to teach you guys for the different
steps that I go through in order to
prepare for my exams in law school in
[Music]
this video I'm gonna take you guys
through the different steps that I go
through for my study routine so
basically from lecture notes up to the
exams
first things first lecture notes now I
think you actually do have to go to
lectures I know some people prefer not
to go but personally I think that's bad
advice because the lectures layout the
topic for you to show you what is the
most important thing so they're a great
way for understanding the structure of a
topic and you know just getting a
surface level understanding personally I
like to take notes on my iPad on good
notes well in lectures I prefer using an
iPad because then you have to handwrite
and by that you just avoid writing down
everything because I'm someone who can
type quite fast so if you give me
opportunity I will just write down the
entire lecture script which is not
really the point of lecture notes I do
use a little bit of color coding there
if you guys are interested in how I take
these lecture notes I have an entire
video on how I make notes on my iPad
which I'm going to link down below or
you can just click on it up here but
basically I just try to make these as
structured as possible and only write
down key information even though it
still ends up being quite a lot I always
print them out because I will later on
take notes from them and I find it
easier to take notes from a paper
version of these notes next up are my
reading notes so my reading notes are
the note that I take in preparation for
my supervision supervisions are
basically like very small seminars and
you get assigned a lot of reading for
them so whenever I read these things I
always ask myself it's just really
important to note down because otherwise
you just blindly copy almost the entire
text and when you do need to write it
down and ask yourself what you actually
need to present this s so it's this best
presented as a graph or the table or
really just this plain text now I do
make all of these things on pages but
then I also use good notes for making
these graphs and you guys are interested
in how exactly I make these notes I have
a video about laptop note-taking on my
channel this video is really just a
concise version of showing you guys how
I use my different note sets and how
they then all play into my study method
but yeah I find it really important to
just ask yourself about the presentation
because that later on makes it easier to
study from these things also with law
you will sometimes come across a new
word and I know there's a temptation to
just quickly put it into Google but the
thing is who will usually doesn't give
you the legal definition because lots of
words have a different meaning in a
courtroom than they do in normal life so
I would highly recommend investing into
a dictionary of law they're not that
expensive just you know so that you can
look things up next I always read things
first and I never take notes on the
first read so when I read through
something for the first time I will
annotate I will maybe highlight a little
but the key thing is I will not take
notes on whatever I'm reading for the
first time because when you're reading
something for the first time everything
kind of seems important but once you've
gone through it you can kind of see
what's more important and I like to use
a free posted method so I have one
posted which says CR which stands for
currently reading than another which
says notes so just how far have I taken
notes on this and then one at the end
which says NT which is cents our next
target so that is where I want to get
and by doing that you can visualize how
many pages you have left to take notes
on but also how many pages you have left
to read I made a really useful way of
just seeing how far you already are and
then kind of visualize your progress in
the book also be smart about what you're
reading and what you're not reading
because usually the assigned reading
contains sections which are irrelevant
for you so go over the headings and look
at your syllabus and then decide whether
you really need to read everything and
for something you don't read just make a
little X next to it so that you don't
end up reading it accidentally it may
only spare you a few paragraphs but
that's also some of your time which you
can then use for something else once
you're done with your reading notes I
would once again recommend printing them
out and then highlighting them
annotating them it's really important
that you go over them one more time
because just writing things down that's
just the first step you are quite
passive when you're just taking notes so
you need to go over them again and make
sure that these things are actually in
your head because otherwise you can't
recall them and the next
so I would highly recommend going over
them really after you've made them so
that the information is still fresh in
your head personally I like to use color
coding with my highlight test just to
make sure that there's a little bit of
structure to it and so that I can see
what these things mean now when you're
printing things out it's important that
you keep them somewhere where their
structure so I like to use these folders
for my different subjects and I just try
to make sure that everything is in there
so that it doesn't fly around my room
and gets lost so for example here in my
international Oh folder I have an adult
map orientation and a general section
for information about the course electro
section supervision section and then a
glossary section and then also a section
for my essays that I write during the
term when you have these folders the
great thing is you can always just take
them out and you know find everything
that you need for a certain topic and
nothing gets lost so in the end I
actually have three sets of notes my
lecture notes my reading notes and the
number set of notes my supervision notes
so revision notes are basically like
meeting minutes because they're just
from a conversation that you had with
your professor now personally I like to
go over these again as well and then
highlight a little bit and I usually
bring some questions into the
supervision so I write these at the top
and the answer is that my teacher gave
to me but they're very very short and
they're just here to clarify some things
on the topic and highlight the key
things but then I take these free note
sets and make my study notes from them
so my study notes are what I put the
most effort into and I make these on
good notes and I try to make them pretty
or at least aesthetically pleasing
because then I'm more motivated to later
and actually look at these I hand write
them on good notes and I try to
visualize as much as I can I find it
really really useful to handwrite them
because then you have a lot of creative
freedom with showing different things
and explaining things personally I'm
someone who learns really well if I
visualize something through a graph or
something but also don't waste your time
with things that don't actually need to
be handwritten because while it is
really really useful to handwrite things
because when you have something
handwritten it's easier for you to
remember it when you learn it from the
handwritten thing but at the same time
not everything needs to be written down
by hand because some things are just
easier when you just screenshot them and
just put them in so for example I am NOT
copying text
from statute so the law itself but I do
use it with color codings for example I
make all my cases green as I do with
highlighting just to make sure that I
can easily see oh this is the case but
yeah basically I just try to make these
as pretty as possible now we're almost
at the final stage so next I would
recommend teaching someone else so just
explain the concept to them so that you
can see whether you are clear on it in
your head because when you really
understood something then you can
simplify it so much that someone who is
new to the subject can also understand
it so it's a great way of just testing
yourself and seeing whether you actually
understood the topic ok so first things
first if the transaction is one which is
something that calls for an explanation
because it is kind of fishy then the
bank is to be considered to be put on
notice which means they now have to
follow the Etheridge protocol in order
to still make their mortgage enforceable
Elena it's the 15th time you're talking
about the bank and so it but I can't
hear it anymore well her loss anyways I
bought myself a new audience
so moving on under the average protocol
the bank has to go for certain steps in
order to make their mortgage enforceable
so they have to make sure that the party
who is being a guarantor to another
private person actually goes and sees a
solicitor ok so do you understand the
significance of the average vertical now
because once you have seen that
solicitor and he's explained everything
to you and then he tells the bank that
he did so then that's it then the bank
has done everything they needed to do
after they were put on notice by that
kind of officially mortgage application
do you guys get that well whether or not
you're cuddly toys get it the point is
when you're explaining something to
someone else then you have to come up
with an easy explanation and you have to
make sure that the concept is structured
in your head because every wise you
can't explain and coherently let's get
to practice questions personally I'm
actually not a big fan of practice
questions because I write lots of essays
and problem questions during the term
thanks to the way Cambridge works so I
actually don't write a lot of practice
question answers while I'm revising
because I've already done that
throughout the entire year which is
really great about Cambridge because you
get constant
but what I do read about from past exams
is examiner's reports examiner's reports
point out common mistakes that people
made so they're kind of a big warning
sign of just you know what are the traps
that people fell into in these exams so
I think they're really really useful
because they tell you what to look out
for one thing that I also do in order to
practice is I read posts on my website
about low now I have a legal blog and I
don't actually talk about things that
are on my syllabus I just talk about
things that I'm interested in so whether
it's whether sugar dating is legal or a
case that I came across on the BBC but
the thing is even though these things
aren't on my syllabus they do give me a
skill which is essay writing and the
cool thing is because I write about
things that I'm interested in and not
necessarily think that I have to write
about simply because they're in the
syllabus it doesn't feel like work it
feels more like a hobby but at the end
of the day I am still actually
practicing writing legal essays so it is
a helpful preparation for your exams
even though it is nothing to do with
your syllabus obviously it only prepares
you for a certain skill but not for the
actual topic itself and yeah that's my
study routine from starting out with
lecture notes to at the end practicing
right before the exam I hope you guys
enjoyed this video thank you so much for
watching have a nice day bye
[Music]